So, guys, welcome back in this module, we will going to study preprocessing directive's in C and
C++ so we will understand the workings of preprocessing directives by following the following.
But first of all, we will discuss the problem of duplicate inclusion of header files.
Then we will learn that what are preprocessing directives and how do they work?
And then we will try to see that how the solution to duplicate inclusion of how the files could be resolved
using preprocessor directives.
So this will give you a clear insight regarding how preprocessing directives work and when should you
use preprocessing directives.
So going forward, let us try to understand the problem of duplicate inclusion of header file, so most
of the times we end up including the same had to file into the source file multiple times this result
in duplicate text substitution.
So the result is the compilation error.
So let us try to understand this with the help of a scenario.
So, for example, you have to have the files that does not match and we don't match.
Now, you are already familiar with these two header files.
Now suppose application dot C is the source file, which is written by a programmer and this programmer
wishes to use the facilities, which is provided by these two header files.
That is, a programmer wishes to use minimum macro or multiply function, or he wishes to use max macro
or some function which is provided by a dot org header file.
So you can see that in the source file.
A programmer has hash included.
Both the header files and rest of the code in this source file is application specific.
So this is the source file, which is version one and it does this source file, which is actually written
by a programmer.
Now let us try to understand that where is the duplicate inclusion of header file?
So applying the tax substitution on version one, we get the version two of application dot source file.
So version two of source file is obtained by applying the tax substitution of B dot ahead of time.
So you can see that the statement has to include B that is replaced by the content of B, not ahead
of file.
Now you can see that we don't have to file already had the statement has included.
And so this leads to two occurrence of hash include a DOT statement in version two of application or
C file.
Now, if you apply the tech substitution again on this wasn't two of application tazi source file,
you'll get version three.
Now you can see that the content of a DOT ad is repeated twice in one country of application dot seesaws
file.
It is because the text substitution has happened twice for a dot edge header file.
So you can see that there is some duplicates inversion, three of application dot seesaws file.
Now proceeding to the final step of tax substitution phase, just remove all the has defiance from version
three of application dot source file and the final version of source file is actually this application
dot seesaws file.
So you can see that what remains in the final version of the source file contains the duplicate declaration
of some functions.
So this declaration comes from one occurrence of a DOT.
S had a file and this declaration comes from another occurrence of a dot etc file.
So this version of application or C file is the final compilation unit which actually visible to the
compiler for compilation.
So when the compiler compiles this final version of Application Tazi file, the compiler will through
an error and it will say something like duplicate definition detected and it will give you a compilation
error.
Right, so you can see that because the programmer has included both the header files and that's already
contain the statement has to include, therefore it resulted in inclusion of a dot.
Each had to file twice in the source file.
And this leads to this problem.
Now, consider a scenario when you have hundreds of header files in your project, you cannot keep a
track that which had to file has include another had a file already, and you should avoid inclusion
of somehow the files explicitly.
It is very difficult for you to keep track of this and you would not want to invest your energy in only
to decide that whether you should include a particular -- or not.
So this problem of duplicate inclusion of how to file is resolved using pre processing directives.
So now let us try to understand that what is preprocessor directives and how do they work and how preprocessor
directives can help us to resolve the problem of duplicate inclusion of header files.